- [Instructor] So now that we've gone through
the operator pattern itself, it's time to talk about
the tool we will use to build our operator,
and that is kubebuilder.
So we've talked about it a few times now at this point,
so some of this may be repetitive.
But it's important to understand the language used
in describing objects in the SDK.
And with that, it is a software development kit, or SDK,
for extending Kubernetes, but it does so based on
how Kubernetes was actually built.
It's built on the Go language,
and its project generation will build a Go project.
One of its primary goals as part of extending Kubernetes
is to build operators.
It also provides facilities to publish
Kubernetes operators as well,
and we're going to do that throughout our course
as we're building this because we're going to test this
against a live running Kubernetes
throughout the development life cycle.
So let's start our semantic leveling
with the concept of groups.
Now groups are what you might imagine,
logical groupings of APIs.
The resources they interact with should have some semblance
of related functionality, at least logically.
The key point here is that versions in the API
are attributed to groups and not individual APIs.
They're the groups of APIs.
So as your API changes over time,
the group's version is what actually changes.
So you could have three APIs,
three resources within a group,
and if you modify one in a version change,
the entire group's API itself is what will change.
So the next topic and one that can be kind of confusing
is the kind.
A kind is an API type within a group.
Kind elements must remain passive across version changes,
but they themselves can change.
You just need to ensure you don't lose data across versions.
A resource is a use of a kind,
and often they will appear to be one to one.
But a kind can be returned by many different resources.
Therefore, they are not, indeed, one to one.
So don't be misled by what you may often see on the surface.
A kind is a part of a resource
and it is a type within the group.
So it gets a little bit confusing, but these words matter
as we're starting to build out our operator.
Because we are going to focus primarily on building
APIs and kinds and then defining the details of that kind.
But as you get into more advanced,
your kinds may be sub-kinds of others.
So it gets a little bit confusing.
Spend some time on this wording and go read the kubebuilder
API documentation to understand this terminology.
I also encourage you to look at how that terminology
is also used in SDK operator
and other components within the operator ecosystem.